FROM A TRUE STORY THREAD
BY DODIT MULYANTO
BAYANGSARI VILLAGE
A HORROR COMEDY BY
BOBBY PRASETYO
[door creaks]
[house gecko chirping]
[thuds]
There are still a lot of house geckos.
Thank God they're not tokay geckos.
They're still a kind of gecko,
but they're more premium.
This is a horror movie.
Please respect me.
[tense music]
[adult Dodit] This is a story
about my childhood,
but that's not me.
Not that one either.
There, that's me.
[Lis] Dodit!
Did they ditch you? [giggles]
- [Dewo] Boys, he is in a ditch!
- [Lis] Dodit!
[kid] Huh? Dodit?
[somber music]
Come here! Play with me.
No.
My Tamiyo is out of battery.
I'll lend you my battery.
No.
I'm going to play with my little brother.
Does he have a little brother?
Maybe he just got one.
[Dewo] So, what kind of job is it, Dad?
[Lis] What kind of work
will Dewo do in the woods?
A year is too long.
[Dodit's mom] Lis.
Getting a promotion
and a raise isn't easy.
And you too, Dewo.
[in Javanese] As a husband,
you are responsible for your wife.
You have to be a provider.
Don't be picky about jobs
or worry about the salary.
- Understand?
- Yes.
[awkward music]
As for you, Lis.
Your duties as a wife include
taking care of your husband
and following his lead.
[in Javanese]
Especially since you're pregnant.
[playful music]
Dodit.
Come here, son.
I have to tell you something.
I'm getting a one-year assignment
for a promotion,
and we'll be moving to Mantren next month.
Dodit, you're moving schools.
Lis, Dewo, and Mom are all coming.
[in Javanese] Don't wanna.
This is me telling you, not a negotiation.
[Dodit's mom] Huh?
Dodit!
Have dinner with us!
Go easy on him.
He just needs to know.
[somber music]
Dodit.
[somber music stops]
You're against the wall.
You'll get sore.
Whatever.
[in Javanese] Come here. Sit next to me.
[sighs]
Is this still about the Tamiyo?
[somber music]
Come here.
[hums]
If it's still about the Tamiyo car,
we should go with Dad.
When he gets a raise,
I promise to get you a Tamiyo car
like the ones your friends have.
When will that be?
Well, in a year or so.
That's too long.
Be patient.
It's better late than never, right?
You promise you'll get me a Tamiyo car?
I promise.
A year will go by quickly.
An expensive one?
The most expensive.
I want five.
Sure.
In five years.
One each year.
Come on, Mom.
[chuckles]
Come on, Dodit.
[in Javanese] There you go, smile.
Yup. Pull it for me.
- Tightly.
- Yeah, tightly.
Great job. [chuckles]
Is this one ready?
Yeah.
- Is that everything, dear?
- Yes.
Dewo, I'll see you there.
Yes, Dad.
[motorcycle revving]
[Dodit's mom] Take care!
[chuckles]
Would you do this in front of Dad?
[playful music]
[chuckles]
[clears throat]
Ma'am. Sir.
I can't drive with my eyes shut.
I feel awkward looking at you two.
[giggling]
Let's go.
Damn it.
TODAY: THURSDAY 16
TOMORROW: KLIWON FRIDAY
[ominous music]
WELCOME TO PRENDUS SUB-DISTRICT
[exclaims] Gosh.
It broke down again?
Looks like it.
I'll give it a push.
[grunts]
[man singing in Javanese]
What is that on the tree, dear?
Nothing.
[Dodit's mom] Look!
- It's a monkey.
- There's no way it's a monkey!
Watch your mouth!
- [tense music]
- [man's singing continues]
[motorcycle engine stopping]
Did you get everything, Dewo?
[chuckles] Almost.
Come on.
[tense music]
Spooky.
There's a prison cell.
Sheesh. It's just a cell.
- Boo!
- [shrieks]
[laughs]
[mocking] Scared?
Lis.
You're just the same.
Aren't you two tired?
[ominous music]
It's so quiet.
I haven't seen anyone around here.
It's nine in the evening.
People are inside their homes.
It's not the city, after all.
Get some rest, dear.
[Joko groans]
Lis, come inside.
It's not good for pregnant women
to be outside at night. Come in.
I'm perfectly fine outside, Mom.
[motorcycle engine revving]
Good evening, sir, ma'am.
- Good evening.
My apologies, Mr. Joko.
I thought you were arriving tomorrow.
I'm Sugeng.
This is Kasno, he's the new kid.
We'll be your staff here.
Oh.
Frankly, we were hesitant to come here.
After all, tonight is the night before
Kliwon Friday.
[ominous music]
This is my wife.
This is Lis, my daughter.
Her husband, Dewo.
This is my youngest child, Dodit.
Are you two from around here?
Ah, we're from…
somewhere around.
- [laughing]
- [playful music]
[laughing]
We've prepared the house, sir.
You and your family can go ahead and rest.
Thank you.
Okay, then. We'll be on our way.
We'll be back here tomorrow
at six in the morning.
You're going already?
Didn't you say it was Kliwon Friday Eve?
It's a bit spooky.
Driver, weren't there rooms available?
Over there, ma'am.
- That one?
- Yes.
Spend the night here.
Uh, thank you, ma'am.
We better go home.
We don't want to trouble you.
It's no trouble at all.
Our home is close by. Right, Kasno?
What? No, it's ages away.
It's close.
If we're talking about ages away,
it'd be Aceh,
Polewali Mandar, or Rangkasbitung.
[chuckles awkwardly]
[Lis] Mister.
What is that cell for?
[Lis] Do you know?
From what I know,
it was used to imprison "blandong."
"Blandong"?
Wood thieves.
That's scary.
[in Javanese] Then spend the night here.
Okay?
Refusing a request from your boss
is bad manners. Right, dear?
[chuckles]
- Yes, ma'am.
- Huh?
Okay, come in. Let's check the post
while we're at it.
Isn't it better to wait until tomorrow?
It's Kliwon Friday tonight.
Exactly. We have to make the most
of Kliwon Friday.
Nobody is outside. The thieves
thought it'd be a quiet night.
Fine.
I'll patrol by myself.
[in Javanese]
You guys can just sleep here.
[Dewo] Dad.
I'll join you since they feel scared.
[Joko] No need.
You stay here with Lis.
You'll start working tomorrow.
Okay.
If so, I'll go with you, sir.
That goes without saying, Kasno.
It is our job.
We'll join you, sir.
Okay. I'll get ready.
Yes, sir.
Come on in.
- Can we help you with anything, ma'am?
- [Dodit's mom] It's fine.
Oh, this.
Please bring the table
and cabinets inside.
Okay. Kasno will help you with that.
[Dodit's mom] Okay. Come on, Kasno.
Excuse me.
You got this.
[tense music]
[house gecko chirping]
Let me help, Kasno.
[Dewo grunts]
I wonder why
Dad's staff didn't want to stay here.
Maybe this house is haunted.
[groans]
Lis, help me out a bit.
Yes, sweetie?
Are you tired?
Mommy is tired too.
[playful music]
You want to lie down?
Oh.
Okay. I'll lie down with you.
What is it, sweetie?
You're tired?
I see.
It's okay.
Daddy will carry it all myself.
Just wish me luck, sweetie.
"Yes, Daddy."
Well done.
[chuckles]
[sighs]
[house gecko chirping]
[yelps] Dewo!
- Dewo!
- What is it?
- The house gecko! Get rid of it!
Oh, please.
- [thuds]
- [gasps] Dear!
Stop.
What? You want to be thrown at Lis?
Oh.
Throw it at me and we're divorced.
[somber music]
It was only a joke.
- [teases]
- Dewo!
- Get rid of it or else!
- Okay, okay.
- Get rid of it…
- I know, dear.
I almost got divorced because of you.
[grunts]
[ominous music]
I wonder what Mr. Joko
is doing at the post.
Is it really okay for us to leave early?
Enough. Don't worry about it.
Be grateful we were able to leave early.
Besides, he's an adult.
He seems like someone who works hard.
Exactly.
He'll make things harder for us.
Huh?
Let's get some rest.
[ominous music]
[screaming]
[panting]
What's with you being so scared?
Don't you know the history of this house?
I know.
During the Dutch…
[yelps, shushes]
Don't say it.
The house is right next to us.
[mumbles]
Stop.
[ominous music continues]
Sugeng, sleep here.
No, you.
The younger one sleeps on the corner.
- [ominous music stops]
- [crickets chirping]
[metal clinks]
Mom.
[sighs] What is it?
I heard something.
Huh?
[metal clinks]
Dad isn't back home yet?
No.
[metal clinks]
Wait here, okay?
I'll go out and check. Okay?
I'm coming with you.
All right. Come on.
[tense music]
- [metal clinks]
- [gasps]
[metal clinking repeatedly]
Did you hear that?
See, I told you this house is spooky.
[ominous music]
Maybe it's a burglar?
Go check it out.
Surely you can handle a burglar.
You don't want to get fired, do you?
[Mom grunts]
If you're this scared,
I'm even more scared.
I'm not scared.
But as a good senior,
I should let my junior step up.
Do you know what "Kasno" means
in ancient Javanese?
"Kas." Cou…
"No." …rage.
Kasno, the courageous.
[patriotic music]
Is that true?
Yeah.
[groans]
[ominous music]
[sighs]
[Dodit] Mom!
Huh? What?
Let's go.
- Just a sec.
- [abrupt beat]
[ominous music intensifies]
Let's go.
Sugeng.
Let's check it out together,
but I'll take the lead.
So, on the count of three,
we'll go outside together.
One.
Two.
[screaming]
- Kasno!
- Ma'am?
Why are you running around
and yelling like that?
I thought I heard a burglar.
I heard something in there.
I thought someone had broken in.
Did you hear that too?
Everything all right, ma'am?
Sugeng! Jeez!
I've checked everything.
[motorcycle engine revving]
All right.
[Dodit's mom] Come on.
What's the matter, dear?
Nothing.
Let's go inside.
Safe?
You didn't even follow me outside.
I was checking inside the house.
The cabinets and door frames
are all teak wood.
[sharp rapping]
- See? Could you hear that?
- [playful music]
[sniffs]
It's teak.
- Teak?
- Yeah.
[sniffs]
You're still new.
You won't be able to tell.
You'll be able to do it one day.
I'm off to work.
- Take care, dear.
- I will.
Good morning, sir.
I'm off to work.
Right. Take care.
Yeah.
Lis, come on.
You're not going to see your husband off?
I'm about to.
He shouldn't have been so early.
[old man in Javanese] Good morning.
Good morning.
I'm here to drop off some oil.
You must be Mbah Slamet.
[chuckles] That's me.
Give this to him.
Okay?
Give me a moment.
[Slamet] Okay.
Miss.
How is it, living in this house?
What do you mean?
This house
is spooky.
[ominous music]
How so?
[Slamet] Oh, my.
You don't know?
So many died in this house.
[tense music]
There were dozens of wood thieves
during the Dutch era!
[Joko] Mbah.
[in Javanese] Pardon, Mbah.
Please don't talk nonsense.
[in Indonesian] You'll scare my family.
Right.
Dear?
You're back already?
I forgot my singlet.
If I don't wear it,
my nipples get itchy
when I'm crawling through the woods.
Oh. Okay.
- Mbah, here you go.
- Okay.
Come on, time for school.
[Dodit's mom] Dear!
I'm taking Dodit to school.
[Joko] Okay.
I'll leave it to you.
Mbah, my daughter will handle the rest.
Okay.
[in Javanese] Don't pick fights
and listen to your teacher, okay?
Yes, Mom.
I'll drop you off,
but come home by yourself, okay?
You can manage by yourself tomorrow…
Hey.
Can you manage?
Yeah.
Good. Let's go.
[Dodit's mom] Lis!
Get your husband's laundry!
You always make me hang it out!
Yes, Mom. I'm going.
[grumbles]
[ominous music]
[voice whispers] Help.
[metal clinks]
[ominous music intensifies]
[yelps]
- Dewo!
- What's wrong, Lis?
[stammering] I heard a voice
crying for help…
Huh?
[distressed noise]
Let's go inside. The sun is setting.
Remember, Mom says pregnant women
shouldn't be out at dusk.
You should stay in the bedroom with me
and we can have fun.
[chuckles] Let's go inside.
Not a chance. You stink.
I don't have to smell good in the woods.
In fact, I'm going back after this.
[Lis] Your laundry.
[ominous music]
FEBRUARY 20, 1992, THURSDAY
TOMORROW: KLIWON FRIDAY
[adult Dodit] Ever since that day,
we experienced many strange things
in Dad's house.
[ominous music]
MARCH 26, 1992, THURSDAY
TOMORROW: KLIWON FRIDAY
[wind whooshing]
- [thuds]
- [yelps]
[Slamet] This house is spooky.
APRIL 30, 1992, THURSDAY
TOMORROW: KLIWON FRIDAY
So many died in this house.
[eerie music]
[screaming]
[groans]
JUNE 4, 1992, THURSDAY
TOMORROW: KLIWON FRIDAY
[Slamet] There were dozens of wood thieves
during the Dutch era.
Here's the food, Dad.
[adult Dodit] Either Mbah Slamet's story
about our house being haunted was true,
or we were just easily frightened.
Don't be afraid, Dodit.
Ghosts don't come out in the afternoon.
- [crowd] There is no God but Allah.
- [ominous music]
[crowd] There is no God but Allah.
There is no god but Allah.
[screaming]
Mom! Help!
[screaming] A dead person is chasing me!
[Dodit] Mom!
JULY 9, 1992, THURSDAY
TOMORROW: KLIWON FRIDAY
[ominous music]
- Let's do rock paper scissors, Kasno.
- Let's do it.
- I won!
- Best out of three.
I won!
[tense music]
Then you go.
Why me?
In Javanese rock paper scissors,
the winner goes.
Go.
You're lucky.
"Kasno" means courageous.
Go, you can do it.
Don't be stubborn.
[ominous music]
[metal clinks]
[shrieks]
How could you believe in my staff's
and Mbah Slamet's ghost stories?
But it's true, Dad.
I experienced it myself.
You too, right, Mom?
Right.
Just let him be.
If he doesn't believe it,
there will be consequences.
Consequences happen
when you disobey your parents
or defy your husband.
There are no consequences with ghosts.
[exclaiming]
[TV playing indistinctly]
With the official opening
of this conservation area,
we hope for a healthier ecosystem.
Building infrastructure
should go hand-in-hand with…
Did you pee in the open?
[shushing]
- [Joko] …and most importantly…
- Pay attention.
…to cut down on teak wood theft.
[village elder] Amen.
May our forest be safer with you here.
With round-the-clock monitoring…
- [tense music]
- …the thieves won't have time.
[laughing]
Nice one.
This is my wife.
Hi. I'm Mrs. Joko.
And my son.
Shall we eat?
[growling]
I seek forgiveness from Allah!
You're a Christian!
Jesus Christ!
[growling]
Sugeng!
[in Javanese] I demand a proper burial!
Sir!
- [growling]
- [Joko] Sugeng!
- Sugeng!
- [all gasping and shrieking]
[tense music]
- [Dodit's mom] Sir! Sir!
- Sir! Call Mbah Slamet!
Hold him!
[Kasno exclaiming]
[tense music stops]
- [Dewo] Kasno!
- [exclaims]
[Dewo] Kasno!
[yells]
- There's no Javanese rock paper scissors!
- Calm yourself, Kasno.
How dare you wipe
your dirty hands on me! [yells]
- Stop, Kasno!
- [groans]
- That's enough.
- [playful music]
[village elder] I think he's dead.
[grunts]
[Joko] I'm here for work.
I can't just return as I please.
[Dodit's mom] You saw what happened!
Do you not think about the kids' safety?
They're locals.
I meant our kids! Not your staff!
[sighs] Oh my God.
[sighs] You never think
about the kids' safety.
How could you?
Lis is expecting.
Dodit is still a kid.
We should trust God with this.
What?
We can't simply go back
because we're scared.
I'm here on duty.
I can't run away from my responsibilities.
That's a responsibility to your job.
What about your responsibilities
to your family?
[somber music]
You spend so little of the night here
if any at all.
I rarely come home
because I'm on patrol duty,
not spending the night with a young wife!
[music turns sour]
So you thought about having a young wife?
How could you say that?
You brought it up first!
- What?
- Spending the night with a young wife!
- I don't have one.
- What if you did?
I'd come home.
Do you have one?
You don't want another wife, right, Dad?
[playful music]
Shush!
Stay out of this.
[grunts]
[door slams]
[somber music]
[door creaks]
What is it, son?
Are you okay, Mom?
[sighs deeply]
I'm okay.
What's wrong?
You still remember, right?
That you'll get me a Tamiyo car
when we return home.
I'd be ashamed to go home
without a Tamiyo.
No, you won't.
I remember.
I'll get you the most expensive
Tamiyo in the world.
Okay?
[adult Dodit's voice]
All I want is a Tamiyo car.
But why does it feel so difficult?
My family is truly something else.
[heavy breathing]
[winces]
You really don't remember anything?
Yeah. I can't remember a thing.
When I came to, I was all beaten up.
Thank goodness.
[winces]
Why does it hurt so bad?
Is this really because I got possessed?
Yeah, it's normal.
My cousin was like that too.
Oh.
All good here.
[playful music]
Uncle!
Who is he referring to?
You, Sugeng. You're the oldest.
Don't call me Uncle, Dodit.
It makes me sound old.
Okay, Sugeng.
That's too casual.
Call me Mister Sugeng. Okay?
What's the matter?
Mister, you know what's wrong
with this house, right?
[tense music]
This house?
If you don't want to tell me,
that's fine.
Please take me to Mbah Slamet's place.
Huh?
Why? His house is far away.
It's close.
If we're talking about far, it'd be Aceh,
Polewali Mandar, or Rangkasbitung.
[stifled laughter]
I don't mind, Mbah. Please tell me.
[sighs]
[distant rooster crows]
To help you loosen up.
[Slamet chuckles] To loosen up.
[hums]
Please.
Ah.
Back in the Dutch colonial days,
a local girl
was impregnated by a married Dutchman.
Mimin was the name.
Huh?
Mimin?
How could a man be named Mimin?
Yeah, impossible.
Are you sure it's not Maman?
It was the girl's name.
[in unison, softly] Oh.
Her name was Rukmini.
Oh.
Their relationship was discovered
by the Dutchman's wife.
Then, the Dutchman left Mimin.
He even managed to shift the blame,
accusing Mimin of lying
about their relationship.
After that, Mimin was locked up
in a cell at your Dad's
official residence.
Mimin was not allowed to see anyone,
including the man who loved her.
The man who…
[in unison] Loved her.
She was even falsely accused of theft
and had her thumb cut off.
Her right or left one?
Hey!
Why is that important?
She could be a lefty.
So what if she is?
- That means she's right-brained…
- [shushing]
You two are so childish.
Please continue, Mbah.
Mimin was suffering.
She gave birth to her baby
inside that cell.
And soon after, they both died.
They died on the night of Kliwon Friday.
[tense music]
Which month?
[music dies down]
Your questions are irrelevant.
It might be a Libra like me.
Are you a Libra too?
Yeah.
I'm a Kliwon Libra.
I'm a Pahing Libra. [chuckles]
No wonder we get along and never clash.
Nice.
Have you ever felt indecisive?
Of course not. Kliwon Libras
are quick decision-makers.
Man, lucky you.
Oh, come on.
[winces]
You have bad luck though.
[whimpering softly]
[Joko] Son, please.
Mbah Slamet is known to talk nonsense,
yet you believe him?
[sighs] Well.
I'll wash up and have a nap.
Here's some more pocket money.
You're still here?
Did Dad give you pocket money?
Not yet.
[bright music]
Here.
Keep it.
Go on.
[bright music stops]
[owl hooting]
[yawns]
Are you getting sleepy this early, Kasno?
Sheesh.
Feel free to sleep. I'll keep watch.
Yes, sir.
Don't say yes.
But he offered, Sugeng.
It's just courtesy.
Then I'll take up the offer.
Wake me up later.
Dewo. You keep watch with me.
Yes, Dad.
[groans]
[clatters]
[ominous music]
[hoarse voice] Help me.
[growls]
- [yelps, screams]
- Sugeng?!
What is it?
He's possessed again!
Audhubillah min al shaitan nirajeem.
Dewo.
I think he's also not a Muslim.
I'm a Muslim!
Allahu Akbar!
It must be a Muslim jinn!
I don't need exorcism! I'm not possessed!
This has to be the Jinn's trick!
- I'm not possessed!
- Squeeze his thumb!
Yes, sir.
- [snaps]
- [screaming]
I meant his big toe, stupid!
[Sugeng groaning]
[playful music]
Mom.
This hot water is for me, right?
TODAY: THURSDAY 13
TOMORROW: KLIWON FRIDAY
Mom.
[ominous music]
Dear?
Mom.
I'm using the hot water for Dewo's bath.
Dear?
[ominous music continues]
[gasps] Dear.
Go. Go take a bath.
Smells like blood.
Dear.
I'll get your towel, okay?
[water splashing]
Dewo is inside.
What about my hot water?
Ask Mom to heat some more.
Dewo is using it.
[clicks tongue] But that was for me.
Don't fuss over it.
[Dodit clicks tongue]
Dear.
Open up, here's your towel.
Dewo.
[water splashing]
I'm coming in.
[ominous music]
D… dear?
Dewo?
What's the matter?
Did you see Dewo come home?
- [stammering]
- Dewo is in the woods with Dad.
He won't be back until dawn.
- Mom.
- What?
I saw him earlier.
[ominous music intensifies, stops]
[door clicks open, creaking]
[door closes]
Dewo?
[footsteps approaching]
Dad?
[groaning]
[ominous music]
[screaming]
[yells, panting]
What is it? Powder?
- No! Your face!
- What is it?
It's ash!
What's this ruckus?
I just saw a ghost.
What?
Are you sure it wasn't a dream?
I know I saw it! Why would I lie?
Calm down.
Think about your baby.
Calm down, okay?
I feel uncomfortable here.
[ominous music]
Why is it that every Kliwon Friday night,
something strange always happens?
Are they going to make us
sacrificial offerings?
[Lis] What?
Hey.
[in Javanese] Watch your mouth.
- Sugeng, Kasno. Help me out.
- Yes, ma'am?
Put these up around the house.
[dramatic music]
Put them up.
How is it?
- It's done, ma'am.
- Is it? Let me see.
Gosh.
Do it properly.
Yes, ma'am.
Lis.
You'll be safe with this.
Cute, right?
Mom. Here.
Okay. Apply it on the alley too.
Apply it everywhere.
Okay.
TODAY: THURSDAY 17
TOMORROW: KLIWON FRIDAY
Dad?
What are you doing?
Dear, what is this?
At least I'm doing something
for our family.
- I…
- You refused to go back.
- Well…
- It's fine!
If you're not going to, don't stop me
from doing what I have to do!
- But…
- That's my condition.
I didn't get to say anything.
[metal clinks]
[tender music]
[Joko in Javanese]
This is getting ridiculous, dear!
[Dodit's mom in Javanese]
There's nothing wrong with being careful!
There's nothing to lose!
If you're away from home all day,
who will protect me and the kids?
[Joko] You know I'm on patrol
day and night!
It's the cost of being a forest ranger.
[Dodit's mom]
When will you protect your family?
[Joko] What do you want?
[Dodit's mom] I want to go home!
I'm going home with the kids,
whether you like it or not!
[Joko] No way!
[Lis in Javanese]
Mom and Dad are always fighting.
Let's just play, Dodit.
[Dodit] I feel bad.
Because of me, Mom couldn't go home.
Dodit?
[ominous music]
He left his bag here?
Dodit?
[dripping sound]
Sister?
[screaming]
Mom! Dad!
[screaming] Help! Mom!
My gosh, Dodit still isn't home
at this hour.
He's not anywhere around here.
[Dodit's mom] What should we do, dear?
He might be crashing at a friend's place.
Don't be ridiculous!
Since we moved here,
Dodit hasn't had any friends!
He comes straight home after school!
I think it's Mimin's ghost.
Don't say the name or Mimin will show up.
Huh?
- [ominous music]
- [Dodit's mom] What?
Dear!
Don't just stand there!
Dear.
The boys and I
will look for Dodit in the woods.
You and Lis stay here in case he returns.
Come on, boys.
[suspenseful music]
Please find him, Dewo.
Take care!
Dodit!
- Dodit!
- [Sugeng] Dodit!
Dodit!
[Dewo] You haven't seen him?
No.
If I had seen him, I would have told you.
He couldn't have been kidnapped, right?
Not a chance. It's safe here.
People here would rather snatch wood
than people.
Unless…
the kidnapper…
isn't human.
You mean a ghost took Dodit away?
[intense ominous music]
[ominous music fades]
[man singing in Javanese]
[singing gets louder]
[ominous music]
Hey.
What are you doing here?
Everyone is looking for you.
Let's go home.
I just saw a…
[shushing]
Keep quiet about whatever you see, okay?
Shh.
Don't tell anyone about it.
Talking about it will only
make the singing man more pleased.
[grunts]
I have a little something for you.
Keep it safe,
and don't tell anyone.
Okay?
I'll take you home.
[sobbing] Oh my God!
[somber music]
We shouldn't have told her so soon.
[in Javanese]
Don't tell me Dodit was taken by a ghost!
No, dear. Kasno was talking nonsense.
[sobbing]
[Sugeng in Javanese]
Pretty sure Mr. Joko is just milking this.
[Dewo shushes]
[Dodit] Mom!
[Kasno] There he is.
[Dodit's mom gasps] Dodit!
Thank God!
[Sugeng] See? He's hugging her again.
[Dodit's mom sobs]
Are you okay?
Are you hurt? Are you injured?
Where have you been?
Everyone was looking for you!
I was just taking a stroll.
You've been missing since this afternoon!
What?
[in Javanese] This is why kids
shouldn't be out at night.
I thought that was for pregnant women?
He's talking back now.
[Dodit's mom] You made me so worried.
No more going out alone for you!
Come straight home after school!
Dewo can even come and pick you up.
Promise me, okay?
You still want to buy a Tamiyo, right?
Don't misbehave again.
[groaning softly]
What's the matter, Lis? Stomach cramps?
Need to use the restroom?
[Lis whimpers]
[groaning]
Her water broke!
Take her to the hospital!
No!
Call a midwife! The hospital is too far!
- Right. Call a midwife!
- Boys, come with me!
- Come on!
- Hang in there, sweetie.
- [groaning]
- Get her inside!
[Dodit's mom] Carefully!
Take her to my room! Come on.
[Kasno] Sugeng,
the motorbike is over here.
[house gecko chirping]
- [Lis screaming in pain]
- [midwife] Push.
Keep pushing.
- It's okay. I'm right here.
- Breathe.
Breathe.
[midwife] Push.
[screaming]
- Push harder.
- Breathe.
- One more time. Come on, push.
- Deep breaths.
Then push.
[Dewo] You got this, Lis.
[screaming]
[in Javanese] Damn it!
[baby crying]
[Dodit's mom] Now that you're a mother,
you need to take better care of yourself.
Mm.
Being a woman is exhausting, Mom.
As a wife, you have to do this.
As a mother, you have to do that.
But Dewo, as a father and husband,
still has his good old life.
[Dodit's mom] You always talk back.
Looking after yourself
makes you more beautiful
and clean.
Like you?
You know I'm right.
Don't we look alike?
My lovely grandchild.
You're so handsome.
She's a girl, Dad.
But she could be handsome.
You made me want to rush home
just to see you.
[shushing]
Dear! You're filthy from being outside.
Take a bath and get changed first.
All right. Gramps is going to take a bath.
"Gramps"?
At least make it "grandpa."
It sounds cooler.
What "grandpa"?
Only wealthy people get called "grandpa."
My undershirt is full of holes.
I'm going to take a bath.
Holes.
[Dodit's mom] Back off,
take a shower first.
[ominous music]
TODAY: THURSDAY 26
TOMORROW: KLIWON FRIDAY
[baby crying]
[tense music]
[loud thud]
[yelps]
- [gasps]
- Dear.
What's the matter?
I saw something at the window…
[baby crying]
[Dodit's mom shushing]
- [Dodit's mom cooing]
- [baby stops crying]
[Dodit's mom] Hush now…
What is it?
Nothing, Mom.
[tense music stops]
[thunder rumbles]
Dad. It's about to rain.
Let's go back home to check on the house.
Okay.
Excuse me, sir.
So are we staying here, or…?
You guys go ahead.
If something happens, I'll let you…
[motorbike revving]
We're off, sir.
The rain is truly a blessing.
Those jerks.
[thunder roars]
[house gecko chirping]
[ominous music]
[screaming]
Mom!
Mom! House geckos!
- [panicking] House geckos!
- Oh my God.
- Dodit, call Dad!
- Okay.
What the heck?
There's none on you.
Dad, come inside.
- What's happened?
- House geckos!
Geckos are always around in the house.
But there's a lot this time!
- How many?
- The whole house is full of them! Come on!
The whole house?
[screaming]
What's going on?
These geckos are everywhere!
I don't know where they came from!
Mom?
- [thunder roars]
- [shrieks]
Calm down.
I'll get the lights.
- [thunder rumbles]
- [Lis and Dodit's mom whimper]
[Dodit's mom] Stay close.
[Joko] Is that you, Dodit?
[Dodit] No, Dad. I'm with Mom.
- Lis?
- No, Dad.
[Joko] I can feel some long hair.
Dear?
[Dodit's mom] I can't hear you.
I'm in front of the house.
[match flares]
[ghostly exhale]
[thunder rumbling]
[match flares]
[ghostly exhale]
[thunder rumbling]
[match flares]
[ominous music]
[baby crying]
Your baby, Lis.
- Yes.
- Huh?
Go get her.
[grunts]
The geckos?
I've cleaned them up, Dad.
[tense music]
[thunder roars]
[heavy breathing]
Dewo!
Dewo! Our baby is gone!
Where is she?
I don't know! I was busy with the geckos!
What should I do, Mom?
[sobbing] Mom…
Calm down. Let's find her together.
- How?
- [baby cooing]
- She's a baby! She can't answer us!
- [baby keeps cooing]
[Dodit's mom]
Had you listened to me and left,
our grandchild wouldn't have vanished!
- [baby gurgling]
- [Joko] Okay, I was wrong.
But I had no choice!
I'm doing this for you, Lis, and Dodit!
Don't talk to me like that!
If anything happens to our grandchild,
I won't be able to forgive myself.
I won't forgive you either!
Enough!
Everything will be fine.
[voice shaking]
Let's start searching, Mom.
[baby gurgling]
[Lis sobbing] We'll find her.
- [Dodit's mom] All right.
- [Joko] Calm down.
I'll go get the boys.
- Our boys are here!
- My staff.
Come with me, Dewo!
[Lis sobs]
[baby gurgling]
[eerie music]
[thunder roars]
[hinges creak]
[yelps]
[shrieks]
[Dodit screams]
- Mom! Help me!
- Dodit?
Mom! Help! [Dodit screams]
[whines]
[Dodit] Mom!
- Dodit!
- [Dodit] No, stop!
- [Dodit whines] Mom! Help!
- Dodit!
Sweetie, it's me!
What's wrong?
[Dodit's mom whimpers]
- What's the matter?
- My baby is missing.
- Can you help us find her?
- Missing?
Help us find her.
Wait. Let me get my umbrella.
- Yes?
- My child is missing.
- I need help finding her.
- Okay, wait.
Let's go!
Wait, I'll lock the door.
Let's go.
[ominous music intensifies]
[ominous music stops]
Thank goodness
we got to leave early today.
Otherwise, we'd have to spend the night
at Mr. Joko's again.
Not to mention it's Kliwon Friday night.
[shudders]
[knocking]
- Someone's at the door.
- Open it.
Watch out for ghosts.
[thunder roars]
No one's here.
Huh?
Sir? What's happened?
Why have you come here this late?
- My grandchild is missing.
- What?
Help me gather the people.
Yes, sir. Please wait.
- Sugeng, wake up!
- [Sugeng mumbling]
Mr. Joko needs us.
[in Javanese] It's raining. It's cold.
We don't even get paid for overtime.
You can go alone.
There's no end to their family problems.
But it's an emergency!
His grandchild is missing!
It was Dodit yesterday.
Now his grandchild.
He'll run out of family members.
[somber music]
[sighs] But…
Mrs. Joko even warned him about it.
"Dear, this house is haunted."
And for what? He refused to believe her.
[sighs]
I guess it's just you and me, Mr. Joko.
[playful music]
Kasno! This is an emergency!
He's missing his grandchild,
not a nail clipper!
You weren't speaking clearly.
Let's go, sir. I'll help you.
I'll go with Kasno.
Kasno! How can I help?
I'll go with Mr. Joko.
Sir! I might get fired.
Sir! Sir!
Everyone! Thank you for coming!
I need your help tonight
to search for my grandchild.
She is a baby.
This group will follow
Kasno and Sugeng that way.
The rest will follow me this way!
[crowd] Let's go!
Go!
[clamoring]
[dramatic music]
Baby!
[in Javanese] Baby, where are you?
[Dewo] Baby, it's Daddy!
[thunder roars]
[music turns somber]
[sobbing]
[Dewo] Excuse me.
Mbah.
Excuse me!
Yes, come in.
What's wrong?
Mbah Slamet.
I need your help.
My child is missing.
- Missing?
- Yes.
I've looked everywhere.
She's not even at the teak forest.
What should I do?
Mimin.
Mimin?
She must be upset
by your family's presence in that house.
I heard
she once had a strong desire for a child.
[gasps]
Please help me, Mbah.
I'm afraid I'm not strong enough for it.
I beg you, Mbah.
Please.
[exhales]
Let me warn you.
My spiritual abilities are limited.
This is all I have.
But I'll do my best.
- Yes, Mbah.
[ominous music]
[chanting mantra]
[grunts]
[house gecko chirping]
Min?
Min.
[in Javanese] Don't bother this family.
[sound of soft sobbing]
Min.
[Mimin sobbing]
Min!
Min.
This family isn't responsible
for your death.
Min.
Return their baby.
[ominous music]
How did my life end up this way?
The only person I ever loved
hurt me.
[somber music]
And I hurt
the only person
who ever loved me.
[sobbing]
Hang in there, child.
I will make sure
that we both… get out of here.
All those people
are evil.
Our only friends…
are these geckos.
[house gecko chirping]
If they don't respect us in life…
perhaps…
they will respect us
in death!
Leave this place at once!
Did you see my grandchild?
It's time we trust
the Almighty.
What do you mean?
[baby crying in the distance]
Did you hear that?
[gasps] Is she outside?
[Dodit's mom yelps]
- Use the back door!
- Dodit, no!
- Dodit!
Go after him!
- [Sugeng] Dodit!
- [Kasno] Dodit!
Wait!
Kasno, open it.
All right.
[Kasno grunts]
[loud banging]
Oh, God. Use the front door!
[Dodit's mom] Dodit!
Go to Dewo!
[screams]
[eerie laughter]
[Dewo] Huh? Lis?
[Dodit's mom] Hold her.
[eerie laughter continues]
[Sugeng grunts]
Mimin!
[Slamet in Javanese] Remember!
Your world is different now!
- Don't bother the living.
- [eerie laughter]
Min, give her back.
Don't bother this family!
Give their baby back.
Mbah!
[ominous music stops abruptly]
Sugeng!
Mr. Joko!
Mrs. Joko!
Dodit!
[faint growling]
Dewo!
Lis!
Lis' baby!
What's her name anyway?
Mr. Joko!
Sugeng!
[distorted voice whispering] Help me.
[screaming]
Mbah Slamet!
Kasno!
Mbah!
Mbah Slamet!
Kasno!
[gasps]
[surrounding eerie laughter]
[yelps]
[thuds]
[baby crying in the distance]
Careful, dear.
[Dewo] Dad.
Help me, Dewo.
In the name of Allah.
[baby crying louder]
My baby! My baby!
Baby!
- [thunder roaring]
- [baby crying]
- There.
- [Dewo keeps calling]
[tense music intensifies]
[Dewo] Baby!
Baby!
Where are you?
[baby crying louder]
Dewo! Over here!
Huh?
[grunts]
[Dewo] Help!
[Dewo groaning]
Mom!
Stand back.
[Dodit's mom whimpers]
[grunts]
[thunder roars]
[sobbing] My baby!
[baby crying]
[somber music]
[Dodit's mom] Come here.
[Joko] Hold on to me.
[baby's crying slowly subsides]
[Dodit's mom] Dear!
Mom.
We found her.
Is she all right?
We found our grandchild.
[uplifting music]
[sobbing]
I'm sorry.
[Lis] I'm sorry.
Sugeng!
- Wake up!
[Kasno] Wake up.
- [gasping]
- [Kasno] Sugeng.
Kasno. Mbah.
[Slamet] Yes.
Let's hurry back to Mr. Joko's house.
Yes, Mbah.
Come on.
Mbah Buyut.
[in Javanese] My condolences.
You spent your life
devoted to Mimin.
Now it's time for you
to rest in peace.
I'm sorry.
Is he the man who loved Mimin?
He was…
my ancestor.
He always stayed here with Mimin
before she left with the Dutchman.
[in Javanese] If you'll excuse me,
Mbah Buyut.
Let's go now.
[Slamet] Mimin will always remain here.
Yes, because her spirit has nyawiji.
Her spirit is one with the house.
Especially that cell.
For months, Mimin used
that cell for shelter.
And so have the spirits
of the wood thieves.
They were treated harshly by the Dutch.
[sighs]
It's just a rumor,
but some of the thieves' remains were
dumped in the woods
and left to rot.
But to this day,
no skeletons have been discovered yet.
And that's
how brutal the Dutch were
during the colonization.
During…
[in unison]
…the colonization.
Oh dear.
So that's how it is.
Mom.
Thank you.
For teaching me how to be a good mother.
[tender music]
[in Javanese] You're welcome.
I'm also still learning.
There's no school for motherhood. Right?
Lis.
You've packed all the baby's clothes?
Yeah, I got everything.
[cooing] My baby is so beautiful.
Dewo.
What?
Give me your hand.
I'm just going inside for a bit.
Why should I give you my hand?
Don't be sad, guys.
No, we're not sad.
I just caught a cold.
[sniffling]
You caught a cold? Get well soon.
Mr. Joko!
[wailing]
Thank you, sir.
For everything you taught us.
I'm sorry if I offended you
or your family in any way.
That's right, sir.
Please forgive Sugeng.
Mmm.
It's okay.
I know my family went missing often.
[music turns sour]
Don't say that, sir.
I was only joking yesterday.
[tender music continues]
[Dodit's mom]Dodit!
Did you get your stuff?
I did!
Thank you for being there for Mr. Joko.
- Yes, ma'am.
- Please forgive him too, Sugeng.
When you got possessed,
Kasno hit you to wake you up.
Forgive him, okay? Get along.
Huh?
[Sugeng] This isn't over
between us, Kasno!
[Kasno] Can we do this later?
[Dodit's mom] Bye all!
[tender violin playing]
[sighs]
That's how it was
living in Dad's haunted house for a year.
What do you think? Scary, right?
That's why I grew up to be a brave man.
I'm not scared of ghosts and such.
No big deal. [chuckles]
[ominous music]
- Mom.
- Yeah?
You're going to get me a Tamiyo, right?
Of course.
Five?
Sure.
But you'll have to
stay in that house again.
Just one is fine.
[chuckles]
[tender music]
- Here's the store.
- Yes!
Mom, look at the Tamiyo.
Wow. What's this?
We'd like a Tamiyo car, please.
This one, please.
Here's the money, miss. Exact change.
Just give it to my son directly.
Dodit. I'm going next door
to buy some food.
- Okay.
- Catch up with me after.
- Please look after him, miss.
Thank you, miss.
[ominous music builds up]